RELEASE NOTES FOR Bismark v0.1.4
--------------------------------

The Bismark alignment process would previously grind to a halt when it
encountered DNA ambiguity bases in the reference genome sequence (R,M...)
while trying to determine the sequence context of (un-)methylated Cs.
This behaviour has now been changed so that everything else than a C in
CpG context was will now be treated as C in not-CpG context.

Fixed a bug whereby the single-end strand-specific output got two of 
the four possible strands mixed up (fixed properly this time).  


RELEASE NOTES FOR Bismark v0.1.3
--------------------------------

Bismark Genome Preparation

If the specified genome directory does already contain a bisulfite 
genome folder, all contents of this directory will be removed before
creating and indexing a new bisulfite genome. Make sure that this
directory does not contain any other data. 

The genome indexer will now convert DNA ambiguity code into N's before 
making the bisulfite genomes (anything else than C, A, T or G will appear
as N afterwards). 

The indexer will now also handle fastA files with mutltiple sequence 
entries in addition to (a list of) fastA files in the specified genome
folder. (Please note that bowtie-build only accepts a few hundred 
individual files (or 'chromosomes') for indexing. If you want to index
more sequences than that they need to be merged in some way).  

Methylation Extractor

Fixed a bug whereby the single-end strand-specific output got two of 
the four possible strands mixed up. Also, the --ignore <int> option did 
previously offset some of the positions of the methylation calls by the 
<int> specified. Both options should now work as intended.

For paired-end alignments with rather short fragment lengths it is 
theoretically possible to read stretches of overlapping sequence with 
both read 1 and read 2. In order not to score the methylation calls for
overlapping sequences twice, we added an option (--no_overlap) to score
overlapping methylation calls only from the first read of a given alignment.

It is a somewhat icky decision to not use the full information of both 
reads, as on the one hand it is good to get as much methylation call 
information as possible, on the other hand cytosines in the middle of
paired-end fragments might get considerably more methylation calls than 
more distal ones. Please note that we are at this stage not comparing or 
evaluating the methylation calls from both reads (even though this is 
entirely possible) but rather just use the calls from one read.  



RELEASE NOTES FOR Bismark v0.1.2
--------------------------------

The Bismark output files for single-end and paired-end reads have been
modified so that they contain only vital information, thereby reducing 
their file size and confusion. More details on the output format can be
found at http://seqanswers.com/wiki/Custom_Bismark_output_format or in
the README.txt. 

Both Bismark and the Methylation Extractor now write out their version
info into the first line of their output files so it is easier to track
errors.

Reads aligning to the very edges of chromosomes previously produced
several error messages when trying to extract one additional bp to 
determine if Cs are in CpG context. These reads (which are very few in
in the datasets tested so far) will now be excluded from the methylation
call analysis.


RELEASE NOTES FOR Bismark v0.1.1
--------------------------------

Both the Bismark genome preparation as well as Bismark itself should
now also run with genome FASTA files that do not look like Ensembl
files (i.e. chr1.fa,chr.2.fa or similar will be fine, too). For the 
moment it is still required however that the files end on '.fa' and 
only one sequence entry is allowed per file. (Multiple fasta entries 
per file will be supported soon). 


RELEASE NOTES FOR Bismark v0.1
------------------------------

Bismark v0.1 is an initial beta release and as such is still a
work in progress.

We have successfully used Bismark for bisulfite mapping against
various genomes (mouse NCBIM37, human NCBI36 and GRCh37, and Yeast 
SGD1.01). In our tests the code appears to be working as expected.

We have initially designed Bismark to support the kinds of analyses
we require, thus if you have some ideas or suggestions which could
be implemented please let us know.

You can report feedback or bug reports either though our bug-
reporting tool at:

www.bioinformatics.bbsrc.ac.uk/bugzilla/

...or directly to felix.krueger@bbsrc.ac.uk


